Crime has been an intractable problem since the beginning of human civilization. Every country has its own approaches to lowering the crime rate in its territory, but they all have one thing in common: putting criminals in prison. The government claims that a prison is a place where criminals have a chance to start a new life. However, there have already been numerous scandals related to the prison: prisoners have been tortured by guards, and riots have occurred in the prison, to name a few. From these reports, it is not difficult to see that the current conditions in most prisons are not ideal.

Many believe that prisons should be decent, comfortable places for prisoners. Prisoners are still human beings at heart, no matter how serious the crime they have committed. Therefore, they are also entitled to basic human rights such as basic housing and adequate amenities. Moreover, if the quality of life in prison is poor, there is a high likelihood that the prisoner will re-offend after release. Everyone should be given a second chance in life, and prison should be an opportunity for prisoners to rectify their mistakes, overcome their cruelty, and build their foundations for a good future.

That being said, there are still quite a few people who argue against this statement. From the victim's point of view, it is extremely unfair if the criminal lives a good life while they suffer from the pain caused by these criminals. Therefore, it seems logical to deprive the prisoners of their freedom and basic human rights as a punishment for their actions. Moreover, if the prison environment is harsh enough, people will do their best to avoid going inside, thus reducing their urge to commit criminal acts.

In short, each point of view has its own opinions, and it is difficult to judge which one is correct. To be honest, I reckon that instead of arguing about whether prison should be a pleasant place or not, we should rather focus on finding a way to educate people better so that fewer and fewer people go to prison.