An effective teacher should have the willingness to learn and adapt. Teachers should stay updated with new teaching techniques to help keep lessons effective. Those who fail to do so will often lead to a boring lesson, causing students unwilling to study. On the contrary, students studying in a class being taught in more innovative ways will have a higher chance of retaining stuff that they have learned for a longer period of time. Moreover, since teaching is mostly about the students, teachers should take the time to adapt to students' needs. Each student as an individual has his/her own pace and ways of learning, thus focusing on what each student needs will undeniably make the study more personal and effective.

Furthermore, an effective teacher should know how to understand and care for the students. Students are mostly immature, and bad mental health often disrupts their studies due to the inability to cope with negative emotions like stress. Therefore, teachers should be aware of how their students feel and assist them in one way or another. Students should also be taught to be supportive of their classmates, ultimately creating a friendly classroom environment. With adequate support from teachers and friends, students will find themselves in a comfortable environment that keeps them motivated to study.

In addition, an effective teacher should be adequately skilled in tech products and also be creative with them, as the technologies are evolving rapidly. Tech gadgets like computers and tablets, as well as the Internet can be utilized to assist the teachers in their lessons. For instance, instead of solely reading from textbooks, teachers can prepare PowerPoint presentations with graphics and illustrations that further strengthen students' grasp of the topic they are being taught, making the lesson more engaging. Teachers nowadays need to make good use of new teaching ideas and tools to catch students' attention during the lesson, especially in the era where students typically have lower attention spans.

In a nutshell, the primary traits that an effective teacher should have are the readiness to adapt to new things, the capability to understand their students, as well as the ability to be creative with technology. The education industry is at a turning point where students need to be taught a completely different skill set than before, like creativity, critical thinking, etc. Therefore, the teacher should deliver their lessons in an effective manner, allowing students to develop the skills that they need for their future careers.